This folder contains pngs and pdfs for each of the figures in the manuscript. These are regenerated each time the Rmd is knit.

In this folder: 
- density-plot-1.*:  Histogram with overlaid density plot of blind sample's vocabulary difference relative to Wordbank norms. Positive values indicate delay, while negative values represent scores that are ahead of the 50th percentile curve from sighted participants.
- longitudinal-plot-1.*: Vocabulary delay in blind children plotted as a function of age. Raw data are plotted in color. Each dot represents one CDI administration, with lines connecting datapoints from the same participant. Black dashed line represents the model estimate with standard error: Vocabulary Delay ~ Age + (1|Participant).
- splitting-tests-1.*: Density plot dividing the sample by gender (A), severity (B), and etiology (C). Note that of the 9 cases with profound visual impairment, 3 are due to sensorineural causes, and 6 are eye-related, while of the 23 participants with severe visual impairment, 11 are sensorineural, and 12 are eye-related.
- visualornot-1.*: Visualization of the significant 3-way interaction between **A** Modality (visual or non-visual), Perceptual Strength (0-5), and Group and **B** the significant 3-way interaction between; Modality, Perceptual Exclusivity (0-1), and Group in predicting probability of word production (see text for model details). Y-axis shows the model-predicted probability of word production, with 95 percent confidence interval; distribution of predicted probability (of individual words) shown in margins. X-axis shows perceptual property (perceptual strength on right panels, perceptual exclusivity on left panels); distribution of words' varying ratings shown in margins. **C**: Perceptual properties of visual and non-visual on the CDI -- perceptual strength on the x-axis and perceptual exclusivity on the y-axis. Some individual words are labeled for illustrative purposes.
- vocab-comparison-1.*: Five comparisons of blind and sighted children's vocabulary. Whiskers represent 95 CIs around the mean. The number in black box indicates the mean for the y-value variable on the CDI (left two panels) or the number of words in that category on the CDI. Bottom box shows Words & Gestures, and top box shows Words & Sentences. **A**: Mean length (syllables) for sighted vs. blind participants. **D**: Mean concreteness rating 1 (abstract) -- 5 (concrete) for sighted vs. blind participants. Note the truncated y axis. **B**: Mean N of words produced by blind and sighted children from each part of speech on CDI.  **C**: Mean N of words produced by blind and sighted children from each semantic category on CDI. **E**: Mean N of words produced by blind and sighted children for each perceptual modality (modality with highest perceptual rating on Lancaster Sensorimotor Norms).
- vocab-match-demo-1.*: Violin plots for age (left) and vocabulary size (right) for blind participants and their vocabulary size matched sighted peers, from Wordbank. Each dot represents one participant. Given that participants are matched exactly on age, the vocabulary scores on the right panel are identical for blind and sighted participants.

Last updated: 11/30/2022
Maintained by: Erin Campbell (erin.e.campbell@duke.edu)